1) How many layers are in OSI reference model?
Ans :  OSI reference model: OSI reference model is an ISO standard which defines a networking framework for implementing the protocols in seven layers. These seven layers can be grouped into three categories:
    Network layer: Layer 1, Layer 2 and layer 3 are the network layers.
    Transport layer: Layer 4 is a transport layer.
    Application layer. Layer 5, Layer 6 and Layer 7 are the application layers.
    There are 7 layers in the OSI reference model.
      
      1. Physical Layer
      It is the lowest layer of the OSI reference model.
      It is used for the transmission of an unstructured raw bit stream over a physical medium.
      Physical layer transmits the data either in the form of electrical/optical or mechanical form.
      The physical layer is mainly used for the physical connection between the devices, and such physical connection can be made by using twisted-pair cable, fibre-optic or wireless transmission media.
      
      2. DataLink Layer
      It is used for transferring the data from one node to another node.
      It receives the data from the network layer and converts the data into data frames and then attach the physical address to these frames which are sent to the physical layer.
      It enables the error-free transfer of data from one node to another node.
      Functions of Data-link layer:
      Networking Interview Questions
          Frame synchronization: Data-link layer converts the data into frames, and it ensures that the destination must recognize the starting and ending of each frame.
          Flow control: Data-link layer controls the data flow within the network.
          Error control: It detects and corrects the error occurred during the transmission from source to destination.
          Addressing: Data-link layer attach the physical address with the data frames so that the individual machines can be easily identified.
                Link management: Data-link layer manages the initiation, maintenance and, termination of the link between the source and destination for the effective exchange of data.
      
      3. Network Layer
      Network layer converts the logical address into the physical address.
      It provides the routing concept means it determines the best route for the packet to travel from source to the destination.
      Functions of network layer:
      Networking Interview Questions
      Routing: The network layer determines the best route from source to destination. This function is known as routing.
      Logical addressing: The network layer defines the addressing scheme to identify each device uniquely.
      Packetizing: The network layer receives the data from the upper layer and converts the data into packets. This process is known as packetizing.
      Internetworking: The network layer provides the logical connection between the different types of networks for forming a bigger network.
      Fragmentation: It is a process of dividing the packets into the fragments.
      
      4. Transport Layer
      It delivers the message through the network and provides error checking so that no error occurs during the transfer of data.
      It provides two kinds of services:
      Connection-oriented transmission: In this transmission, the receiver sends the acknowledgement to the sender after the packet has been received.
      Connectionless transmission: In this transmission, the receiver does not send the acknowledgement to the sender.
      
      5. Session Laye
      The main responsibility of the session layer is beginning, maintaining and ending the communication between the devices.
      Session layer also reports the error coming from the upper layers.
      Session layer establishes and maintains the session between the two users.
      
      6. Presentation Layer
      The presentation layer is also known as a Translation layer as it translates the data from one format to another format.
      At the sender side, this layer translates the data format used by the application layer to the common format and at the receiver side, this layer translates the common format into a format used by the application layer.
      Functions of presentation layer:
      Character code translation
      Data conversion
      Data compression
      Data encryption
      
      7. Application Layer
      Application layer enables the user to access the network.
      It is the topmost layer of the OSI reference model.
      Application layer protocols are file transfer protocol, simple mail transfer protocol, domain name system, etc.
      The most widely used application protocol is HTTP(Hypertext transfer protocol ). A user sends the request for the web page using HTTP.

2) What is the usage of OSI physical layer?
Ans : The OSI physical layer is used to convert data bits into electrical signals and vice versa. On this layer, network devices and cable types are considered and setup.

3) Explain the functionality of OSI session layer?
Ans : OSI session layer provides the protocols and means for two devices on the network to communicate with each other by holding a session. This layer is responsible for setting up the session, managing information exchange during the session, and tear-down process upon termination of the session.

4) What is the maximum length allowed for a UTP cable?
Ans : The maximum length of UTP cable is 90 to 100 meters.

5) What is RIP?
 Ans :RIP stands for Routing Information Protocol. It is accessed by the routers to send data from one network to another.
      RIP is a dynamic protocol which is used to find the best route from source to the destination over a network by using the hop count algorithm.
      Routers use this protocol to exchange the network topology information.
      This protocol can be used by small or medium-sized networks.

